Owner of Enabler Interactive is Huy Nguyen. 

Email id for enabler interactive is huy@enablerinteractive.com , Contact number for enabler interactive is 0402207775

Sprains and strains, Back injury, Head injury, Neck injury, Repetitive Strain Injury.

In case of any incident- Document incident it in the chart, send an email to your supervisor asking for help on handling the client and cc or bcc your non-work email. Here is the link for family and child abuse services Victoria. You can report your incident here. : https://services.dhhs.vic.gov.au/reporting-child-abuse

If you see any behavioural changes in your client then  try talking to client and try to make them calm. Take them in confidence that they can share any problem with you and you are there to help them out. Try figuring out what is bothering them.

Communication with the client is tricky, you need to be patient with the client and try to understand what is going on with the client.

Prescription drug abuse is a significant and growing problem but recovery is possible. Some form of assistance is required to discontinue a prescription drug addiction. Withdrawal from particular drugs can be dangerous and even life-threatening, so medical supervision is usually required to make sure your client can quit safely. Assistance include medically supervised detox program, behavioural counselings and support 

A hazard is anything that has the potential to cause harm or an adverse effect, An item could be a hazard if there’s a risk you could trip or slip on it, If you are working in someone’s home, you should consult with them before moving their things.

If we discover the equipment is faulty we need to mark it as unsafe and let the employer, colleagues, and clients know not to use it.

using any kind of medication which is not in the care plan is against medication policy.

Tasks performed by support worker: 
Personal care tasks- things like supporting a person to shower or go to the toilet, to get dressed or to eat a meal,
Household management tasks- things like supporting a person with vacuuming or laundry, making beds or grocery shopping and meal preparation,
Supporting independence tasks- things like making sure that people have all the items in place that they need to do a task for themselves.

Roles of support worker: 
Personal safety: Part of your role is to support people in a way that promotes their safety, 
this includes identifying hazards in the workplace, 
following best practice, following the service plan and your organisation’s policies and procedures and 
Personal independence: Most people will be able to do some things for themselves ,
Your role is to support and encourage people to do the things they are capable of doing for themselves.

You should always respect the privacy and dignity of disabled person,
It is your responsibility to ensure that you have followed the right procedure for your workplace if you are unable to support them at the agreed time, 
This is another way of showing respect.


Service delivery models: Holistic, Person-centred , Consumer focused
Holistic care means looking at the whole person. Physical, mental, cultural and spiritual needs and how these affect a person’s enjoyment of quality of life are all important
A person-centred approach focuses on a person’s individuality, relationships, needs, communication, feelings and abilities and takes a holistic view of the person’s situation as the starting point for determining the type and level of support to be provided
Consumer focused Outcomes may focus on a specific area in a person’s life, such as household management, personal care or socialisation.

Boundaries at work- Working within your boundaries means that you only provide support which you have been trained for, Working within your boundaries may also be called your scope of practice.Your organisation’s policies and procedures will have information about your scope of practice. 

Say no to the request (politely) that are outside your service plan/role unless it is an emergency.

Ways of communicating effectively: Call people by the name they prefer, Pay attention to what people have to say, Rephrase using different words, if
someone does not understand you, Speak clearly and talk directly to people, Take your time and express one idea at a time, Use body language to improve communication- These are the non-verbal ways in which you use eye contact, gestures, and the space between you and someone else, Keep your language simple and avoid using jargon,
Listen to silence, Acknowledge people’s experiences and feelings even if you do not agree with or understand them,
Look for hidden meanings,
Encourage and reassure people when they need it. Wait for a response to questions and try not to finish people’s sentences or thoughts for them. Use humour when or if it’s appropriate. 

Standards of behaviour are the way that your organisation expects you to behave and carry out your duties and responsibilities.

Privacy policy:You must protect the identity of people where required,
You must make sure that only approved people have access to confidential information about a person such as the supervisor or another team member,
You must not discuss or share confidential information about people you support with anyone other than an approved person such as a supervisor,
You must not share confidential information about another colleague unless it is to protect that worker’s health and wellbeing,
You must not pass on confidential information about the organisation you work for (your employer) or discuss it within the organisation unless this is approved.

signs of physical violence: bruising in chest and abdomen, multiple injuries, minor laceration, ruptured eardrums, delay in seeking medical attention, patterns of repeated injury also Violence can include threats, coercion and insults, as well as social and economic control. 

symptoms of family violence: anxiety, panic attacks, stress and/or depression, 
stress related illness, 
drug abuse, including dependency on tranquillisers and alcohol
chronic headaches, asthma, vague aches and pains
abdominal pain, chronic diarrhoea
complaints of sexual dysfunction, vaginal discharge
joint pain, muscle pain
sleeping and eating disorders
suicide attempts, psychiatric illness
gynaecological problems, miscarriages, chronic pelvic pain.

Questions you can ask your client if you think he/she is facing violence: ‘How are things at home?’,
‘How are you and your partner relating?’,‘Is there anything else happening that might be affecting your health?’
'You seem very anxious and nervous, Is everything all right at home?’ ,
‘When I see injuries like this I wonder if someone could have hurt you?’ ,
‘Is there anything else that we haven’t talked about that might be contributing to this condition?’

Responding to disclouser of violence against client includes listening, communicating belief, validating the decision of disclosure and emphasising the unacceptability of violence.
LINK https://www.facs.nsw.gov.au/domestic-violence/about/how-to-recognise-dv form more information.